Another data structure down hash tables by now you should absolutely love them because well they're
very useful they're used everywhere.
And the funny thing is that it's probably the most common interview question where you use a hash table
to optimize something kind of like we saw in our interview question by using hash tables we optimize
those nested loops that are all when squared to o over in linear time.
This is a question that comes up again and again that I promise you if we notice this pattern it will
be extremely useful for you in an interview and Undoubtedly you'll have an instance where you have to
use it and follow this exact same step in this section.
We learned that hash tables have really fast lock ups but remember we need a good collision resolution
need it usually we don't need to worry about this because our language in computer underneath the hood
take care of that for us.
It allows us to do fast answers and depending on the type of hash tables such as maps in javascript
we can have flexible keys instead of an array that has 0 1 2 3 just numbered indexes.
The downside with hash tables is that it is an order.
It's hard to really go through everything in order.
And also it has slow key iteration.
That is if I want to grab all the keys from a hash table I'll have to go through the entire memory space
as we saw when we built our own hash table looking at the big OTTF we can see that hash tables has a
search insertion deletion of of one but in worst case due to collision there are some.
All of an operations that could happen.
And if we go to our mind map we can now cross off hash tables off our list.
We understand the big-O complexity.
We also understand that with collisions we might want to use something like linked lists which we'll
talk about very shortly in our exercise.
We just simply used arrays.
We also learned the idea that hash tables in interviews are usually useful for improving time complexity
especially of nested loops.
The tradeoff being that we can have fast access but more memory going back to our question that we had
a few lessons ago where we had to find the common item of two arrays we had array one and array two
and we had to see if any of these arrays contain similar items.
We had one that didn't.
And the second version where x and x both arrays contain X it would return true.
Our first iteration of that exercise we had to use 2 for loops that were nested.
So that created a times the complexity however using hash maps we were able to just do one for loop
and optimize this function.
Like I said before this is such a common pattern that we'll be talking about it later on in the course
as well.
When we talk about dynamic programming if we go back to our cheat sheet that I shared with you at the
beginning of this course we can now cross off a few things off the list that we haven't talked about
in the good code checklist.
We talked about the good use of data structures when to use hash tables over perhaps a race the idea
of code reuse and not repeating yourself is something we've been following and should be familiar to
all of us.
We also talked about modular code and making code more readable which allows code to be more maintainable
and testable.
We talked about how usually in an interview we want to avoid the show and squared operations and we
saw that we're able to do that with hash tables
but we did see that with a hash table we had to increase our space complexity to all of.
And because we created this new variable that keeps track of all the items in the array.
So that is the tradeoff.
And then we can cross off a few heuristics for those who don't know Sure mistakes are kind of like rules
or simple tricks that are going to come up over and over and over that you can use in an interview hash
map or hash tables are usually the answer to improve time complexity.
Again hash tables are some of the best way to optimize your code.
And looking at time versus space tradeoff sometimes storing extra state and memory like we did with
hash tables can help the time or the runtime.
And then finally Space-Time tradeoffs.
Hash tables usually solve this.
A lot of the time use more space but you can get a time optimization to the process.
I know we've only talked about two data structures but I think these two are the most important moving
forward we're going to use them to learn about others.
Good job getting this far.
Take a nice little break have some coffee and I'll see you in the next video.
Buh-Bye.